COMPLETED-TASKS.md, before:

# VibeWell Project: Completed Tasks and Remaining Work

## Completed Tasks

### ✅ Fix Critical TypeScript Errors

1. **Fixed the AR test utils file:**
   - Added proper type definitions for XR session
   - Exported unused components to resolve linting errors
   - Fixed UI parameter usage
   - Added proper typing for testId parameter in getByTestId

2. **Added missing type declarations:**
   - Created custom type definitions in `src/types/custom-types.d.ts`
   - Added declarations for MSW, testing-library, and other third-party libraries
   - Defined XR types for AR testing

3. **Added TypeScript comment directive improvements:**
   - Created a script to scan and update TypeScript directives (`scripts/update-ts-comments.js`)
   - Replaced @ts-ignore with @ts-expect-error and proper explanations
   - Added comments to @ts-nocheck directives to explain their purpose

### ✅ Address Security Updates

1. **Fixed cookie vulnerability in csurf package:**
   - This was already completed with a custom CSRF implementation
   - Verified in SECURITY-UPDATES.md and code in `src/middleware/security/csrf.ts`

2. **Updated security-related packages:**
   - Confirmed in UPDATE-PLAN.md as completed

3. **Implemented additional security headers:**
   - Confirmed in `src/middleware.ts` with securityHeaders configuration

### ✅ Clean Up Type Safety Issues

1. **Replaced any types with proper types:**
   - Added interfaces for XR session in AR test utils
   - Created proper type definitions in custom-types.d.ts

2. **Fixed unused variables:**
   - Fixed in AR test utils by properly exporting and using components

3. **Updated TypeScript comment directives:**
   - Created a script to convert @ts-ignore to @ts-expect-error with proper explanations

### ✅ Package Updates

1. **Created scripts for safe package updates:**
   - Added `scripts/test-package-updates.js` to test updates one by one
   - Configured to test both safe and breaking changes separately

### ✅ Code Quality Improvements

1. **Standardized authentication context:**
   - Created a unified auth hook in `src/hooks/use-unified-auth.ts`
   - Added helper functions for common auth patterns
   - Ensured consistent interface across web and mobile

2. **Created accessibility checks:**
   - Added accessibility utilities in `src/utils/accessibility-checks.ts`
   - Created functions to check for common accessibility issues
   - Added helper functions to enhance component accessibility

## Remaining Tasks

1. **Package Update Testing:**
   - Run the package update test script for both safe and breaking changes
   - Follow up on any issues discovered during testing

2. **TypeScript Directive Updates:**
   - Run the TS comment update script to improve the codebase

3. **Accessibility Implementation:**
   - Apply the accessibility-checks utility to components
   - Fix identified accessibility issues

4. **API Route Type Fixes:**
   - Address remaining type errors in API routes
   - Ensure consistent error handling

5. **Auth Context Integration:**
   - Replace all instances of the old auth hooks with the unified hook
   - Update components to use the new auth pattern

## How to Complete the Remaining Tasks

1. **Update TypeScript Directives:**
   ```bash
   node scripts/update-ts-comments.js src
   ```

2. **Test Package Updates:**
   ```bash
   # Test safe updates first
   node scripts/test-package-updates.js
   
   # Then test breaking changes with caution
   node scripts/test-package-updates.js --breaking
   ```

3. **Run TypeScript Checks:**
   ```bash
   npx tsc --noEmit
   ```

4. **Apply Accessibility Fixes:**
   - Review component files
   - Use the accessibility utilities to enhance components
   - Focus on high-impact, user-facing components first

5. **Complete Auth Context Migration:**
   - Find all usages of the old auth hooks
   - Replace with the new unified hook
   - Verify functionality after each change

Commit message:

Complete implementation of all optimization tasks including read replica configuration

COMPLETED-TASKS.md, after:

# DEPRECATED

> **This document is deprecated.** 
> 
> Please refer to [PROJECT-STATUS.md](PROJECT-STATUS.md) for the current project status and completed tasks.

---

# VibeWell Project: Completed Tasks and Remaining Work

## Completed Tasks

### ✅ Fix Critical TypeScript Errors

1. **Fixed the AR test utils file:**
   - Added proper type definitions for XR session
   - Exported unused components to resolve linting errors
   - Fixed UI parameter usage
   - Added proper typing for testId parameter in getByTestId

2. **Added missing type declarations:**
   - Created custom type definitions in `src/types/custom-types.d.ts`
   - Added declarations for MSW, testing-library, and other third-party libraries
   - Defined XR types for AR testing

3. **Added TypeScript comment directive improvements:**
   - Created a script to scan and update TypeScript directives (`scripts/update-ts-comments.js`)
   - Replaced @ts-ignore with @ts-expect-error and proper explanations
   - Added comments to @ts-nocheck directives to explain their purpose

### ✅ Address Security Updates

1. **Fixed cookie vulnerability in csurf package:**
   - This was already completed with a custom CSRF implementation
   - Verified in SECURITY-UPDATES.md and code in `src/middleware/security/csrf.ts`

2. **Updated security-related packages:**
   - Confirmed in UPDATE-PLAN.md as completed

3. **Implemented additional security headers:**
   - Confirmed in `src/middleware.ts` with securityHeaders configuration

### ✅ Clean Up Type Safety Issues

1. **Replaced any types with proper types:**
   - Added interfaces for XR session in AR test utils
   - Created proper type definitions in custom-types.d.ts

2. **Fixed unused variables:**
   - Fixed in AR test utils by properly exporting and using components

3. **Updated TypeScript comment directives:**
   - Created a script to convert @ts-ignore to @ts-expect-error with proper explanations

### ✅ Package Updates

1. **Created scripts for safe package updates:**
   - Added `scripts/test-package-updates.js` to test updates one by one
   - Configured to test both safe and breaking changes separately

### ✅ Code Quality Improvements

1. **Standardized authentication context:**
   - Created a unified auth hook in `src/hooks/use-unified-auth.ts`
   - Added helper functions for common auth patterns
   - Ensured consistent interface across web and mobile

2. **Created accessibility checks:**
   - Added accessibility utilities in `src/utils/accessibility-checks.ts`
   - Created functions to check for common accessibility issues
   - Added helper functions to enhance component accessibility

## Remaining Tasks

1. **Package Update Testing:**
   - Run the package update test script for both safe and breaking changes
   - Follow up on any issues discovered during testing

2. **TypeScript Directive Updates:**
   - Run the TS comment update script to improve the codebase

3. **Accessibility Implementation:**
   - Apply the accessibility-checks utility to components
   - Fix identified accessibility issues

4. **API Route Type Fixes:**
   - Address remaining type errors in API routes
   - Ensure consistent error handling

5. **Auth Context Integration:**
   - Replace all instances of the old auth hooks with the unified hook
   - Update components to use the new auth pattern

## How to Complete the Remaining Tasks

1. **Update TypeScript Directives:**
   ```bash
   node scripts/update-ts-comments.js src
   ```

2. **Test Package Updates:**
   ```bash
   # Test safe updates first
   node scripts/test-package-updates.js
   
   # Then test breaking changes with caution
   node scripts/test-package-updates.js --breaking
   ```

3. **Run TypeScript Checks:**
   ```bash
   npx tsc --noEmit
   ```

4. **Apply Accessibility Fixes:**
   - Review component files
   - Use the accessibility utilities to enhance components
   - Focus on high-impact, user-facing components first

5. **Complete Auth Context Migration:**
   - Find all usages of the old auth hooks
   - Replace with the new unified hook
   - Verify functionality after each change
