docs/docs/guides/accessibility-audit.md, before:

# Accessibility Audit for Vibewell Platform

## Executive Summary

This accessibility audit examines the Vibewell platform's compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA standards. The audit identifies current accessibility strengths, areas for improvement, and provides specific recommendations to enhance the platform's accessibility for all users, including those with disabilities.

## Scope

The audit covers the following areas of the Vibewell platform:
- User interface components
- Navigation and wayfinding
- Forms and input mechanisms
- Media content
- Color contrast and visual presentation
- Keyboard navigation
- Screen reader compatibility
- Touch interfaces

## Methodology

The audit was conducted using a combination of:
- Automated accessibility testing tools
- Manual code review
- User interaction testing with keyboard-only navigation
- Screen reader testing (with NVDA and VoiceOver)
- Color contrast analysis
- Mobile accessibility assessment

## Compliance Status

| WCAG Principle | Current Status | Priority |
|----------------|----------------|----------|
| Perceivable | Partial Compliance | High |
| Operable | Partial Compliance | High |
| Understandable | Mostly Compliant | Medium |
| Robust | Partial Compliance | Medium |

## Key Findings

### Strengths

1. **Proper use of ARIA in components** - Most UI components utilize appropriate ARIA roles and attributes
2. **Form validation** - Error messaging is generally well implemented with clear feedback
3. **Responsive design** - Content adapts well to different viewport sizes
4. **Use of semantic HTML** - Many components use proper semantic markup
5. **Label associations** - Most form fields have properly associated labels

### Areas for Improvement

#### High Priority

1. **Keyboard Navigation**
   - Missing focus indicators on several interactive elements
   - Focus order is not logical in some complex components
   - Some interactive elements cannot be accessed via keyboard

2. **Color Contrast**
   - Several instances of insufficient color contrast, especially in muted text
   - Interactive states (hover, focus) sometimes lack sufficient contrast

3. **Screen Reader Support**
   - Missing alternative text for images
   - Incomplete or missing ARIA attributes in some custom components
   - Dynamic content changes not properly announced

4. **Skip Navigation**
   - No skip navigation link for keyboard users to bypass repeated content

#### Medium Priority

5. **Form Accessibility**
   - Some form error messages not programmatically associated with inputs
   - Some form fields missing descriptive instructions

6. **Heading Structure**
   - Inconsistent or incorrect heading hierarchy on several pages
   - Missing headings in some sections

7. **Touch Target Size**
   - Some touch targets too small for mobile users with motor impairments

8. **Animation Control**
   - No mechanism to pause, stop, or hide animations

## Detailed Findings and Recommendations

### 1. Keyboard Navigation

#### Issues:
- Missing visible focus styles on buttons, links, and form controls
- Modal dialogs trap keyboard focus but don't manage it properly
- Some dropdown menus not accessible with keyboard
- Tab order doesn't follow logical sequence in complex layouts

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Add custom focus styles to interactive elements
<Button
  className="focus-visible:ring-2 focus-visible:ring-primary focus-visible:ring-offset-2 focus-visible:outline-none"
  // existing props
>
  Button Text
</Button>

// Implement skip link at the start of the page
<a 
  href="#main-content" 
  className="sr-only focus:not-sr-only focus:absolute focus:top-4 focus:left-4 focus:z-50 focus:p-4 focus:bg-white focus:text-primary"
>
  Skip to main content
</a>

// Manage focus properly in dialogs
useEffect(() => {
  if (dialogOpen) {
    // Set focus to the first focusable element
    firstFocusableRef.current?.focus();
  } else {
    // Return focus to the element that opened the dialog
    triggerRef.current?.focus();
  }
}, [dialogOpen]);
```

### 2. Color Contrast

#### Issues:
- Muted text (`text-muted-foreground`) fails to meet 4.5:1 contrast ratio
- Primary button hover state lacks sufficient contrast with background
- Icon-only controls lack text alternatives

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Increase contrast for muted text
<p className="text-muted-foreground font-medium">
  <!-- Increase font weight to improve readability -->
</p>

// Add text alternatives for icon-only controls
<button
  aria-label="Search"  // Add descriptive label
  className="..."
>
  <SearchIcon />
</button>
```

Update color palette in `tailwind.config.ts`:
```ts
theme: {
  extend: {
    colors: {
      // Ensure these colors meet contrast requirements
      'muted-foreground': '#666876', // Darkened for better contrast
      'primary-hover': '#0842A0', // Darkened for better contrast on hover
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Screen Reader Support

#### Issues:
- Missing alt text on images
- ARIA attributes missing on custom components
- Dynamic content changes not announced to screen readers
- Virtual Try-On feature not accessible to screen reader users

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Add proper alt text to images
<img 
  src="/path/to/image.jpg" 
  alt="Descriptive text about the image" 
/>

// Use aria-live regions for dynamic content
<div 
  aria-live="polite" 
  aria-atomic="true"
>
  {dynamicContent}
</div>

// Add proper ARIA roles and states to custom components
<div 
  role="tablist" 
  aria-label="Profile settings"
>
  <button 
    role="tab" 
    aria-selected={activeTab === 'details'} 
    aria-controls="details-panel"
  >
    Details
  </button>
  <!-- Other tabs -->
</div>
```

### 4. Form Accessibility

#### Issues:
- Error messages not associated with form inputs
- Missing descriptive instructions for complex inputs
- Required fields not properly indicated

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Associate error messages with inputs
<div>
  <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
  <Input
    id="email"
    aria-describedby="email-error email-hint"
    aria-invalid={!!errors.email}
  />
  {errors.email && (
    <p id="email-error" className="text-red-500 text-sm">
      {errors.email.message}
    </p>
  )}
  <p id="email-hint" className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
    We'll never share your email.
  </p>
</div>

// Mark required fields
<Label htmlFor="username">
  Username <span aria-hidden="true">*</span>
  <span className="sr-only">(required)</span>
</Label>
```

### 5. Virtual Try-On Accessibility

#### Issues:
- AR features not accessible to users with visual impairments
- Controls lack proper labeling
- No alternative experience for users who cannot use AR

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Provide alternative text-based description
<div className="ar-viewer-container">
  <ThreeARViewer ... />
  
  <details className="mt-4">
    <summary className="text-primary cursor-pointer">
      Text description of this look
    </summary>
    <div className="mt-2 p-4 bg-muted rounded-md">
      <p>
        This hairstyle features warm auburn tones with subtle highlights.
        The cut is a medium-length bob that frames the face with side-swept bangs.
        <!-- Detailed description would go here -->
      </p>
    </div>
  </details>
</div>

// Improve control labeling
<Button 
  onClick={zoomIn}
  aria-label="Zoom in" 
  className="..."
>
  <ZoomInIcon />
</Button>
```

## Prioritized Action Plan

### Immediate Actions (1-2 weeks)

1. **Add a skip navigation link** to bypass repetitive content
2. **Fix critical contrast issues** in the primary user flows (booking, profile, checkout)
3. **Add missing alt text** to all images in primary user journeys
4. **Fix keyboard navigation** for primary interactive components
5. **Address ARIA issues** in the most frequently used components

### Short-term Actions (1-2 months)

1. **Implement proper focus management** in modals and dialogs
2. **Fix heading structure** across all pages
3. **Enhance form accessibility** with proper error associations and instructions
4. **Improve touch target sizes** for mobile interfaces
5. **Fix remaining contrast issues** in secondary flows

### Long-term Actions (3-6 months)

1. **Develop alternative experiences** for AR/VR features
2. **Enhance screen reader support** for complex interactions
3. **Implement a comprehensive testing protocol** for accessibility
4. **Provide accessibility documentation** for the component library
5. **Train development team** on accessibility best practices

## Conclusion

The Vibewell platform currently achieves partial compliance with WCAG 2.1 Level AA standards. While many foundations are in place, significant improvements are needed in keyboard navigation, screen reader support, and color contrast to achieve full compliance.

By implementing the recommendations in this audit, Vibewell can create a more inclusive experience for all users, including those with disabilities, while also meeting legal requirements for digital accessibility.

## Appendix: Testing Tools Used

- Axe DevTools
- WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool
- Lighthouse Accessibility Audit
- Keyboard-only navigation testing
- NVDA and VoiceOver screen readers
- Color Contrast Analyzer

Commit message:

chore: unify VibeWell branding across documentation

docs/docs/guides/accessibility-audit.md, after:

# Accessibility Audit for VibeWell Platform

## Executive Summary

This accessibility audit examines the VibeWell platform's compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 Level AA standards. The audit identifies current accessibility strengths, areas for improvement, and provides specific recommendations to enhance the platform's accessibility for all users, including those with disabilities.

## Scope

The audit covers the following areas of the VibeWell platform:
- User interface components
- Navigation and wayfinding
- Forms and input mechanisms
- Media content
- Color contrast and visual presentation
- Keyboard navigation
- Screen reader compatibility
- Touch interfaces

## Methodology

The audit was conducted using a combination of:
- Automated accessibility testing tools
- Manual code review
- User interaction testing with keyboard-only navigation
- Screen reader testing (with NVDA and VoiceOver)
- Color contrast analysis
- Mobile accessibility assessment

## Compliance Status

| WCAG Principle | Current Status | Priority |
|----------------|----------------|----------|
| Perceivable | Partial Compliance | High |
| Operable | Partial Compliance | High |
| Understandable | Mostly Compliant | Medium |
| Robust | Partial Compliance | Medium |

## Key Findings

### Strengths

1. **Proper use of ARIA in components** - Most UI components utilize appropriate ARIA roles and attributes
2. **Form validation** - Error messaging is generally well implemented with clear feedback
3. **Responsive design** - Content adapts well to different viewport sizes
4. **Use of semantic HTML** - Many components use proper semantic markup
5. **Label associations** - Most form fields have properly associated labels

### Areas for Improvement

#### High Priority

1. **Keyboard Navigation**
   - Missing focus indicators on several interactive elements
   - Focus order is not logical in some complex components
   - Some interactive elements cannot be accessed via keyboard

2. **Color Contrast**
   - Several instances of insufficient color contrast, especially in muted text
   - Interactive states (hover, focus) sometimes lack sufficient contrast

3. **Screen Reader Support**
   - Missing alternative text for images
   - Incomplete or missing ARIA attributes in some custom components
   - Dynamic content changes not properly announced

4. **Skip Navigation**
   - No skip navigation link for keyboard users to bypass repeated content

#### Medium Priority

5. **Form Accessibility**
   - Some form error messages not programmatically associated with inputs
   - Some form fields missing descriptive instructions

6. **Heading Structure**
   - Inconsistent or incorrect heading hierarchy on several pages
   - Missing headings in some sections

7. **Touch Target Size**
   - Some touch targets too small for mobile users with motor impairments

8. **Animation Control**
   - No mechanism to pause, stop, or hide animations

## Detailed Findings and Recommendations

### 1. Keyboard Navigation

#### Issues:
- Missing visible focus styles on buttons, links, and form controls
- Modal dialogs trap keyboard focus but don't manage it properly
- Some dropdown menus not accessible with keyboard
- Tab order doesn't follow logical sequence in complex layouts

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Add custom focus styles to interactive elements
<Button
  className="focus-visible:ring-2 focus-visible:ring-primary focus-visible:ring-offset-2 focus-visible:outline-none"
  // existing props
>
  Button Text
</Button>

// Implement skip link at the start of the page
<a 
  href="#main-content" 
  className="sr-only focus:not-sr-only focus:absolute focus:top-4 focus:left-4 focus:z-50 focus:p-4 focus:bg-white focus:text-primary"
>
  Skip to main content
</a>

// Manage focus properly in dialogs
useEffect(() => {
  if (dialogOpen) {
    // Set focus to the first focusable element
    firstFocusableRef.current?.focus();
  } else {
    // Return focus to the element that opened the dialog
    triggerRef.current?.focus();
  }
}, [dialogOpen]);
```

### 2. Color Contrast

#### Issues:
- Muted text (`text-muted-foreground`) fails to meet 4.5:1 contrast ratio
- Primary button hover state lacks sufficient contrast with background
- Icon-only controls lack text alternatives

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Increase contrast for muted text
<p className="text-muted-foreground font-medium">
  <!-- Increase font weight to improve readability -->
</p>

// Add text alternatives for icon-only controls
<button
  aria-label="Search"  // Add descriptive label
  className="..."
>
  <SearchIcon />
</button>
```

Update color palette in `tailwind.config.ts`:
```ts
theme: {
  extend: {
    colors: {
      // Ensure these colors meet contrast requirements
      'muted-foreground': '#666876', // Darkened for better contrast
      'primary-hover': '#0842A0', // Darkened for better contrast on hover
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Screen Reader Support

#### Issues:
- Missing alt text on images
- ARIA attributes missing on custom components
- Dynamic content changes not announced to screen readers
- Virtual Try-On feature not accessible to screen reader users

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Add proper alt text to images
<img 
  src="/path/to/image.jpg" 
  alt="Descriptive text about the image" 
/>

// Use aria-live regions for dynamic content
<div 
  aria-live="polite" 
  aria-atomic="true"
>
  {dynamicContent}
</div>

// Add proper ARIA roles and states to custom components
<div 
  role="tablist" 
  aria-label="Profile settings"
>
  <button 
    role="tab" 
    aria-selected={activeTab === 'details'} 
    aria-controls="details-panel"
  >
    Details
  </button>
  <!-- Other tabs -->
</div>
```

### 4. Form Accessibility

#### Issues:
- Error messages not associated with form inputs
- Missing descriptive instructions for complex inputs
- Required fields not properly indicated

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Associate error messages with inputs
<div>
  <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
  <Input
    id="email"
    aria-describedby="email-error email-hint"
    aria-invalid={!!errors.email}
  />
  {errors.email && (
    <p id="email-error" className="text-red-500 text-sm">
      {errors.email.message}
    </p>
  )}
  <p id="email-hint" className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
    We'll never share your email.
  </p>
</div>

// Mark required fields
<Label htmlFor="username">
  Username <span aria-hidden="true">*</span>
  <span className="sr-only">(required)</span>
</Label>
```

### 5. Virtual Try-On Accessibility

#### Issues:
- AR features not accessible to users with visual impairments
- Controls lack proper labeling
- No alternative experience for users who cannot use AR

#### Recommendations:
```jsx
// Provide alternative text-based description
<div className="ar-viewer-container">
  <ThreeARViewer ... />
  
  <details className="mt-4">
    <summary className="text-primary cursor-pointer">
      Text description of this look
    </summary>
    <div className="mt-2 p-4 bg-muted rounded-md">
      <p>
        This hairstyle features warm auburn tones with subtle highlights.
        The cut is a medium-length bob that frames the face with side-swept bangs.
        <!-- Detailed description would go here -->
      </p>
    </div>
  </details>
</div>

// Improve control labeling
<Button 
  onClick={zoomIn}
  aria-label="Zoom in" 
  className="..."
>
  <ZoomInIcon />
</Button>
```

## Prioritized Action Plan

### Immediate Actions (1-2 weeks)

1. **Add a skip navigation link** to bypass repetitive content
2. **Fix critical contrast issues** in the primary user flows (booking, profile, checkout)
3. **Add missing alt text** to all images in primary user journeys
4. **Fix keyboard navigation** for primary interactive components
5. **Address ARIA issues** in the most frequently used components

### Short-term Actions (1-2 months)

1. **Implement proper focus management** in modals and dialogs
2. **Fix heading structure** across all pages
3. **Enhance form accessibility** with proper error associations and instructions
4. **Improve touch target sizes** for mobile interfaces
5. **Fix remaining contrast issues** in secondary flows

### Long-term Actions (3-6 months)

1. **Develop alternative experiences** for AR/VR features
2. **Enhance screen reader support** for complex interactions
3. **Implement a comprehensive testing protocol** for accessibility
4. **Provide accessibility documentation** for the component library
5. **Train development team** on accessibility best practices

## Conclusion

The VibeWell platform currently achieves partial compliance with WCAG 2.1 Level AA standards. While many foundations are in place, significant improvements are needed in keyboard navigation, screen reader support, and color contrast to achieve full compliance.

By implementing the recommendations in this audit, VibeWell can create a more inclusive experience for all users, including those with disabilities, while also meeting legal requirements for digital accessibility.

## Appendix: Testing Tools Used

- Axe DevTools
- WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool
- Lighthouse Accessibility Audit
- Keyboard-only navigation testing
- NVDA and VoiceOver screen readers
- Color Contrast Analyzer
